A game by PAK CORMIER

Description:

Tensions are rising at the Chicago Stock Exchange. A scarce commodity is
an expensive commodity! The new "Keep 1, Sell 1" speculative trading rule
has just been adopted! If your opponents have got too much corn or coffee,
your objective will be to sell some to drag their market price down. You can
control the game by making the right strategic choices at each turn!

Chicago Stock Exchange by cirkle is a collecting game for 2 to 4
players, aged 8+.
Time required: 15 minutes

Principle:

A scarce commodity is an expensive commodity! Each turn, the players
must tactically acquire 2 commodities by moving the "Trader/ Pawn" used
by all players. This enables you to either buy (keep 1) or sell (sell 1) at the
Stock Exchange. Selling makes it possible to drive down the value of com-
modities by a notch on the Commodity Price Board. This board constantly
displays the value of each commodity, which changes after each turn.
Theoretically, the value of a commodity can vary from 7 to 1 for Wheat or
from 6 to 0 for the others.

Equipment:

A “Trader” pawn + 36 pieces representing the commodities divided into
different families. -> Wheat, Rice, Cocoa, Coffee, Sugar, Corn + a board to
record the commodity prices as you go along and 6 tokens.

Setting up:

Mix the 36 pieces and then randomly lay out 9 stacks of commodities,
facing upwards, arranged in a circle. You should then place the "Trader"
on one of the 9 stacks.
The players agree among themselves who should start.

Note: when there are 4 players, you should play in teams of 2.

Gameplay:

Each person plays in turn. The player who starts moves the Trader in a
clockwise direction, from stack to stack. He moves by 1, 2 or 3 squares at a
time.
He then takes the 2 commodities from the top of the two stacks around him.
Tactically, he keeps 1 for himself and puts 1 in the Bank. He ﬁnishes his turn
by updating the Commodity Price Board. To do so, he moves the token for
the commodity he has sold down by one notch. This reduces its value by the
same amount. Its price cannot increase.

Game end:

The game is over when there are only 2 stacks left in the game.
You should then add up your points. Each player calculates the Value of his
commodities according to the trading price shown on the ﬁnal board.
The player with the most points is the winner!

"Expert" version:

Instead of moving the Trader forward by 1, 2 or 3 stacks, you can move him
by as many stacks as you wish, in a clockwise direction, up to a square
displaying the same commodity as the one shown on the square he just left, ‘
without going beyond it. If the next square contains the same commodity,
in this case he will only move by a single square. If it's behind him, he may
possibly go all the way around.
